Update shamie-Resnet.mdx (#14)
sezan92/computer-vision-course: shamie-Resnet.mdx

## Resnet Paper Summary

### Observed Problem: Degradation with depth.

Deeper network layers were assumed to be more effective because the performance of neural networks improved by deepening the layers.
As the layers deepened, the extracted features could be further enriched, such as seen with VGG16 and VGG19.
A question arose: "Is learning networks as easy as stacking more layers"?
An obstacle to answering this question, the gradient vanishing problem, was addressed by normalized initializations and intermediate normalization layers.

> However, a new issue emerged: the degradation problem. As the neural networks deepened, accuracy saturated and degraded rapidly. An experiment comparing shallow and deep plain networks revealed that deeper models exhibited higher training and test errors, suggesting a fundamental challenge in training deeper architectures effectively. This degradation was not because of overfitting but because the training error increased when the network deepened. The added layers did not approximate the identity function.

Reviewer: can you give reference to the experiment?

> Resnet’s residual connections unlocked the potential of extreme depth, propelling accuracy upwards while plain networks grappled with degradation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resnet’s residual connections unlocked the potential of the extreme depth, propelling the accuracy upwards compared to the previous architectures.

```

## Resnet Architecture

> - A Residual Block. Source: ResNet Paper

Reviewer: reference of the paper?

Resnet’s building blocks designed as identity functions, preserve input information while enabling learning. This approach ensures efficient weight optimization and prevents degradation as the network deepens.

To make H approximate the identity function, we do the following

### Let H(x) - x = f(x)

### F(x) := 0

### H(x) = 0 + x

### H(x) = x

Shortcut connections perform identity mapping and their output is added to the output of the stacked layers. Identity shortcut connections add neither extra parameters nor
computational complexity, these connections bypass layers, creating direct paths for information flow, and they enable neural networks to learn the residual function (F).

Resnet Network = Plain Network + Shortcuts

For operations F(x) + x, F(x) and x should have identical dimensions.

> ResNet employs two techniques to achieve this:

Reviewer: @sitamgithub-MSIT do you have a special diagram for this?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I suppose I had one regarding it.

- Zero-padding shortcuts that add channels with zero values, maintaining dimensions without introducing extra parameters to be learned.
- Projection shortcuts that use 1x1 convolutions to adjust dimensions when necessary, involving some additional learnable parameters.

> In deeper ResNet architectures like ResNet 50, 101, and 152, a specialized "bottleneck building block" is employed to manage parameter complexity and maintain efficiency while enabling even deeper learning.

Reviewer: can you add one or two lines about deeper Resnet architectures ? i mean the problem with the deeper networks

## Resnet Code

> ### Author: Pytorch Team

Reviewer: this part can be made as docstring

### Deep residual networks pre-trained on ImageNet

> import torch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
import torch

```

> import torch

Reviewer: add "```" before the `import torch`

model = torch.hub.load('pytorch/vision:v0.10.0', 'resnet18', pretrained=True)
# or any of these variants
# model = torch.hub.load('pytorch/vision:v0.10.0', 'resnet34', pretrained=True)
# model = torch.hub.load('pytorch/vision:v0.10.0', 'resnet50', pretrained=True)
# model = torch.hub.load('pytorch/vision:v0.10.0', 'resnet101', pretrained=True)
# model = torch.hub.load('pytorch/vision:v0.10.0', 'resnet152', pretrained=True)
model.eval()

> All pre-trained models expect input images normalized in the same way, i.e. mini-batches of 3-channel RGB images of shape (3 x H x W), where H and W are expected to be at least 224. The images have to be loaded in to a range of [0, 1] and then normalized using mean = [0.485, 0.456, 0.406] and std = [0.229, 0.224, 0.225].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All pre-trained models expect input images normalized similarly, i.e. mini-batches of 3-channel RGB images of shape (3 x H x W), where H and W are expected to be at least 224. The images have to be loaded into a range of [0, 1] and then normalized using mean = [0.485, 0.456, 0.406] and std = [0.229, 0.224, 0.225].

```

Here's a sample execution.

> # Download an example image from the pytorch website

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Download an example image from the Pytorch website

```

from torchvision import transforms
input_image = Image.open(filename)
preprocess = transforms.Compose([
transforms.Resize(256),
transforms.CenterCrop(224),
transforms.ToTensor(),
transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
])
input_tensor = preprocess(input_image)
input_batch = input_tensor.unsqueeze(0) # create a mini-batch as expected by the model

# move the input and model to GPU for speed if available

if torch.cuda.is_available():
input_batch = input_batch.to('cuda')
model.to('cuda')

with torch.no_grad():
output = model(input_batch)

# Tensor of shape 1000, with confidence scores over ImageNet's 1000 classes

print(output[0])

# The output has unnormalized scores. To get probabilities, you can run a softmax on it.

probabilities = torch.nn.functional.softmax(output[0], dim=0)
print(probabilities)

# Download ImageNet labels

!wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/hub/master/imagenet_classes.txt

# Read the categories

with open("imagenet_classes.txt", "r") as f:
categories = [s.strip() for s in f.readlines()]

# Show top categories per image

top5_prob, top5_catid = torch.topk(probabilities, 5)
for i in range(top5_prob.size(0)):

> print(categories[top5_catid[i]], top5_prob[i].item())

Reviewer: add "```" after the print statement

### Let H(x) - x = f(x)

### F(x) := 0

### H(x) = 0 + x

### H(x) = x

Shortcut connections perform identity mapping and their output is added to the output of the stacked layers. Identity shortcut connections add neither extra parameters nor
computational complexity, these connections bypass layers, creating direct paths for information flow, and they enable neural networks to learn the residual function (F).

Resnet Network = Plain Network + Shortcuts

For operations F(x) + x, F(x) and x should have identical dimensions.
ResNet employs two techniques to achieve this:

- Zero-padding shortcuts that add channels with zero values, maintaining dimensions without introducing extra parameters to be learned.
- Projection shortcuts that use 1x1 convolutions to adjust dimensions when necessary, involving some additional learnable parameters.

In deeper ResNet architectures like ResNet 50, 101, and 152, a specialized "bottleneck building block" is employed to manage parameter complexity and maintain efficiency while enabling even deeper learning.

## Resnet Code

### Author: Pytorch Team

### Deep residual networks pre-trained on ImageNet

> import torch

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
import torch

```

from torchvision import transforms
input_image = Image.open(filename)
preprocess = transforms.Compose([
transforms.Resize(256),
transforms.CenterCrop(224),
transforms.ToTensor(),
transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
])
input_tensor = preprocess(input_image)
input_batch = input_tensor.unsqueeze(0) # create a mini-batch as expected by the model

# move the input and model to GPU for speed if available

if torch.cuda.is_available():
input_batch = input_batch.to('cuda')
model.to('cuda')

with torch.no_grad():
output = model(input_batch)

# Tensor of shape 1000, with confidence scores over ImageNet's 1000 classes

print(output[0])

# The output has unnormalized scores. To get probabilities, you can run a softmax on it.

probabilities = torch.nn.functional.softmax(output[0], dim=0)
print(probabilities)

# Download ImageNet labels

!wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pytorch/hub/master/imagenet_classes.txt

# Read the categories

with open("imagenet_classes.txt", "r") as f:
categories = [s.strip() for s in f.readlines()]

# Show top categories per image

top5_prob, top5_catid = torch.topk(probabilities, 5)
for i in range(top5_prob.size(0)):

> print(categories[top5_catid[i]], top5_prob[i].item())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
print(categories[top5_catid[i]], top5_prob[i].item())
```
```
